About role models
A short thought about role models
Friday, Nov 10 of 2017
img/backgroundPost3.jpg
There was a poll in Russia, asking people for their rolemodels. The first, most popular, answer was <i>I don’t have a rolemodel, I don’t trust anyone</i>
he second, most popular answer, was 'Elon Musk'.
The third, most popular answer, was 'Vladimir Puttin'.
I still found interesting trends coexist. I can relate with the first one. But not because I don’t trust anyone, but because I don’t believe in role models.
        
Role models are human, and humans, under certain conditions( like high stress ), will behave in a way that is not healthy. Not for them or for their community.
        
I think, also, that adopting a role model is one of the firsts steps to idealize people. See them as infalible beings that will have the right judgment for every possible situation.

This idealization It’s not something that happens overnight. It’s a process that builds up until people put their role model in an unquestionable place.

When I was working for a very important company, I had an amazing guy as a boss. This guy was really smart, the kind of people that seems to have all the principles of the book "Peopleware" in an intuitive way.

So, I was talking with my boss, wich was a big fan of apple products, that the size of the iphone package was shrinking over the years. So, you need less materials to create the packaging, you can transport more iphones in the same space, making the logistics more efficient. All this sums out to make the latest iphone a more eco feiendly product.

  Of course, this os totally wrong, the iphone is almost impossible to repair. Which creates more waste of dangerous materials(like the battery, that you can't change) down the consummer chain. This fact can’t be compensated by any change in the package. Even if they give you the phone in a bag made of recycled paper, it’s still one of the most contaminant products on earth.

  So, this smart guy is in a position that he accepts what the apple marketing department says without further analysis.

  I think that the cause of this behavior has its roots in Steve Jobs and his place as a role model. Certainly, he was a strong role model for my boss.

  Steve Jobs reminds me to the corrupt police officers in Argentina. They are bullies, and a bullie is an ignorant person with power.

  Why I think of Mr. Jobs as an ignorant person? Well, he didn’t understand the importace of family, work life balance, have this dangerous “whatever it takes “ attitude but, most of all, he doesn’t think beyond the end of his own life. His contributions to humanity aren’t intended for the next generations.

  If we compare him with Elon Musk, we can see a huge contrast. Elon musk is creating solar panels, electric cars, super baterys, reusable rockets, and more. All this products contribute to a better future for the whole world. When he talks in public, he shows that he cares about people.

  As you can imagine, I think that Elon Musk is a nice guy, but I still don’t feel him as a role model.

  I believe in people that I think deserves my attention. I tend to listen to them ofthen, and I’ll support them if I can. I don’t believe in people that speaks with violence. Mr. Musk is a good example of people that I think are worthy of my attention and support. Another examples are Neil Degrace Tyson or Bill Nye.

  Through the years, my experience teaches me that you have to work for things that are worthy. Having people that influence your life is not an exception. In the case of a “role model”, you have to evaluate every statepent separately, and be ready to discard this model as soon it became unhealthy.

  If tomorrow Elon Musk says “I want to put a colony in Mars, whatever it takes. No matters if I have to dry a lake, make animals extinct or drill a mountain to the sea level, I’ll do it”, well, that day Ellon Musk will not have my support anymore.

  But in real life, things are not so extreme. The changes are very subtle. One day the tesla factory shows that their betterys are not so eco frienly as they claim. Other day the reusable missiles use cheap labor in china to handle dangerous chemicals. This kind of changes happen in small doses, and you have this changes must be considered separately.

  Role models are, if not a myth, a disposable asset that makes you work hard for it.