Don't be a consumer.
Being a consumer is harmful for you.
Sunday, Nov 12 of 2017
img/backgroundPost4.jpg
On my 16+ years working as a computer programmer, I worked for several important companies like coca-cola, Unilever, Johnson and Disney, just to name a few.

I always listen that they refer to the people which the product of the company is destined, "the consumers".

For me, the word "consumer" have a negative connotation because of this work experience. When I think about a consumer, I think about a person in which companies are interested only for their money, that can be manipulated by marketing techniques, that can be harvested.

Basically, a consumer is an entity that is there to be consumed.

I learned some crazy things in working for this big name companies that I'd like to share:

<b>If the product is free, you are the product</b>
Think about Facebook making millions selling your personal data. Think about the free games that you download in your phone. Think apple tracking your geographical position. You get the idea.

<b>First you save, then you spend, not the other way around</b>
In Argentina, credit cards are a big problem. If you open a bank account, automatically you get two credit cards(VISA and Mastercard).
Also, the Web portals to check your accounts are obscure. So keep track of your spendings and interest rates applied to your debt is very hard.
This can lead to truly financial disasters, specially in the young working population.

So, as you can imagine, the system is rigged. Every time you spend money in a 48" LED TV or in the new phone, they put you far away from things that are really worthy, like a home.

Buying a home is a long term project, that can take a big part of your life, but once you have your own home, your spendings are reduced drastically. So you don't need a big salary to pay the rent, and you can afford working on more fulfilling, worst paid jobs, or simply traveling and having a better life.

Being a consumer is harmful, and it's a downward spiral. You spend a lot of money on a phone, that you use for browse social networks, you spend a lot of money in a playstation and a big ass 4k tv(because you want the ultimate experience, right?) and play games that takes 40 hours to finish. All this time is time that degrades your mental skills and your body.

Instead of that, I totally recommend other activities like exercising in the open and learning new stuff.

I understand that not all the countries have places where you can do a lot of outdoor activities. In Argentina is not easy to do physical activities in the open. In the city we have very few places where you can go to enjoy nature(in the city we have less than one tree per habitant) and in the towns open spaces can be dangerous.

But earn new stuff is something that you can do at home and it pays. In my field, I try to learn new stuff every day. My favorite source are books. Youtube videos and blogs doesn't have this careful craft for information that books have. And they are distraction less things.

Also, I like to write. I use a took called "focus writer", that is just a black screen that allows me to write without interruptions. I have an arduino project to create a distraction less writing device, that is just a mechanical keyboard that is a low cost clone of <a href="https://www.google.cz/search?q=freewrite">freewrite</a>.

So, the idea is try to expose your mind and body to activities that enhance you as a human being, instead of being a consumer.

* Read a book
* Save Money
* Help other people
* Take care of yourself

Thanks for reading.
