Morning Routine
Why having a morning routine is important
Sunday, Dec 3 of 2017
img/backgroundPost8.jpg
I work really hard, a lot of hours, and also I try to do some sport, read write, learn and take care of my loved ones.

For me, it's really hard to find time for all this activities, but I managed to cheat the clock and steal some minutes a day to keep the balance.

Yesterday I was reading a post from Richard Branson about his morning and night routines: Oh man, I wish I can afford kite surfing first thing to do in the day. Not because the sport is expensive, but because living near the sea is expensive.

But the important idea of that post was that have a morning and a night routine is important. I have to admit that morning routines helps me to reach most of my goals and keep my mind sharp and my body healthy. Or at least avoid some problems related with sedentary life and lack of new ideas.

Back in Argentina, a few years ago, I was unsatisfied with my job, and I need to  work in a personal project to feel better. The problem was that I felt that the product of my job(games) where not creative enough. So I tried to work in this project when I back from work. 

Due to the nature of the task(create and design a game that is fun to play), it was impossible to do it in the evenings, I was exhausted. My mind simply was not with the creative challenge. I was too tired.

Luckily, I'm a morning person, so I start to work in the mornings, before my day job. I do all the creative and design tasks first time in the morning and left the mechanical tasks(like asset generation) for the evening.

The result was "Vox Populi, Vox Dei: A werewolf triller.". It gave me money product of the ad share and some recognition that help my career a lot.

I kept my morning routine since then, I had several modifications since then, but still I have it.

My morning routine today is basically reading and writing. Have something good to read and have something good to say are related.

So, most of the time, I'm reading and learning, as you can see on the "What I'm reading" section of my website. It help's me a lot to keep learning new things when my everyday job becomes repetitive. And don't get me wrong, I'm totally ok with my job, but try to get in a competitive market as China can be repetitive and stressful. And you can't depend on learn everything from your job.

<h2>How my morning routine looks today</h2>

My daily routine change from time to time, depends on the day, sometimes I change gym for reading or writing but the important thing is that I do something before the office.

Monday Wednesday and Friday I go to the gym with a co-worker around 7:30 am. Maybe it doesn't sound early to you, but since we have below zero temperatures here, it's quite a challenge. We made some split weight workout and then we go to work. It's a really nice time to talk about non-work related stuff. We are at work around 9:30 am.

Tuesday and Thursday and Sunday I read a book or write something in the blog. It's super important to do this activities in silence and total concentration. First, to improve the amount of time you can spend with your own thoughts, or someone else thoughts, if you are reading.

<h2>How I wish my morning routine looks like</h2>

There are some changes I'd like to make to my morning routine, but it's hard for me to do this changes. Still I trying.

First, I feel that I'm reading too much books at the time, and it takes too long to finish everyone of them. I need to fix this but I don't know how. Also, continuity is important, you should finish absorbing concepts and ideas before introducing new ones. The books usually follows a line of thinking, and if you mix it the quality of the learning is affected. Since the books I'm reading are different subjects, I think it works pretty well, but still I feel that I can improve it.

Second, I think I need more cardio, but running in temperature from -4 to -19 degrees is quite a challenge, and this cold is not something that goes away once you warm up, this cold bytes you. But I bought some special clothes recently and hopefully I'll be running at some point this week, in the cold Prague morning.

Third, I think I should totally have a nightly routine, sometimes I come back from home and I don't cook, and play videogames. This is really harmful because a) You need to cook your own food, is healthier and b) Playing videogames is not the best brain activity you can do, specially if you are playing modern games, that didn't gives you much of a challenge.

In order to fix the third point, I need to go to the grocery store at some point and get to home early enough to cook something. About the videogames thing, I can substitute this by reading, but I not always on the mood for reading. So I think that playing some emulator with some really challenging games like Contra III can totally make a difference. Also I can go for a run or call my family.

All of this activities are way much better alternatives for my actual nightly routine.

<h2>Final words</h2>

As you can see, the morning and nightly routines is a good way to take care of yourself. It improve your physical and mental health.

Also, it helps you a lot on your career, because it helps you to have a better attitude on the rest of the day when you start the day with some enjoyable activity.

