Focus: Being productive while creating quality stuff
Tips for being productive and create amazing stuff without sacrificing quality.
Friday, Nov 24 of 2017
img/backgroundPost7-bis.jpg
I woke up in Sunday morning early, the autumn sun comes through the window of the bedroom of my flat on Prague, waking me up.

The night before I was cleaning the house and it was spotless, and quiet. I checked my phone, it's battery was exhausted.

I make some coffee and open my computer, I tried to read some news from Argentina, but the internet was out. Sometimes happens, the signal goes out, and after a while, it comes again. 

So, no phone, no internet. I open a book that I was reading about IOS programming, is one of those books that have a lot of exercises and, at the end of every chapter you end up with a fully functional IOS application.

I open it in the chapter I left: Autolayout. I keep reading and making the exercises, after a while, I was totally into in the experience of reading and typing, running and testing. It was amazing. I finished the whole chapter and start a new one, that was about write in the IOS filesystem to save data first, and then images.

I finished two chapters by noon, and it was totally surprised about how enjoyable was the experience. 

As I say, the experience was totally amazing, I stop to think about how this morning was so special.

I looked trough the double crystal of the window. The sun was high, but the temperature was around 3 degrees. The internal garden was grey, the trees had already lost their leaves, leaving the naked, dark branches exposed to the cold wind.

While I contemplate this view, with my mug of hot coffee on my hand, I keep thinking in the experience: Pure intellectual joy, no interruptions, no distractions.

Our modern world is full of distractions. They prevent us to reach our intellectual goals. Phones and social media screaming for our attention and for our time.

It remember my time in college, when I shut of the cell phone to be able to study.

From that Sunday, I develop a consistent, effective, and repeatable way to achieve high quality results, shielding myself from distractions.

<h2>The method for achieve great intellectual goals</h2>

Goals like writing, reading or learning, can be easily achieved in an enjoyable, fulfilling way, if we take care of the environment.

You have to learn how to enjoy silence and solitude. Intellectual tasks are lonely tasks. You have to be alone with your own thoughts.

Don't set a timer, you have to feel that you have all the time of the world to finish your task. Your task it's done when it's done.

Create a mechanic to recover easily from a stop or pause in your work. Keep in mind that we are talking about an unavoidable stop. Like going to work, going to sleep or take for a walk to Elizabeth, the corgi.

Stop browsing social media.

Keep the process simple. If you are writing, you only need pen and paper for the ideas and drafts or a notebook with a distraction less writing software(like FocusWriter), if you are learning, choose the smallest set of tools. The only that are absolutely necessary. Nothing more.

Try to get specialized tools, avoid using your phone as a tool, like a calculator for your exercises in case of you learning math. If you need it, switch it to airplane mode while you are working.

Learn to enjoy the act of starting from scratch, with a blank page. Enjoy the empty code editor, the white canvas. Find the pleasure of writing the first line, or tracing the first line.

Avoid making tasks in parallel, if you are programming or writing, don't upgrade , download or install software. They will call for your attention when they are reading, just to hit the [ok] button or to accept terms and conditions who nobody reads.

Electronic tools(text editors) allows us to correct often and easily. Don't do that. Scratch, discard, restart. Don't interrupt your flow with corrections, learn to avoid errors and recover from them on the go.

Create and discover enjoyable activities within your task. When I write, I use "FocusWriter", with the "typewriter sounds" option activated. I enjoy very much the sound of me working. This puts me in the constructive loop, the more and faster I write, the more often the "clics" sound, this drives me like techno music, pushing me to move my fingers faster. You have to discover your own pleasures within the tasks you tackle. 

Maintain a clear environment, clean the place you work and keep it like that. Whey you work in a clean and organized environment, flow comes easily. Try to maintain the environment clean. Remember that the more you wait to clean something, the more time you'll spend if the task later. 

<h2>Final thoughts</h2>
Following this guidelines help me to be more productive and, over all, enjoy more the intellectual tasks I do. 

As you can tell, most of them talk about discipline. Discipline to perform the task long enough to be in the zone where you are totally concentrated and to keep the place you work in a healthy conditions. 

Take care of yourself and your working environment, and you'll achieve great things.
