If someday I decide to get a tatoo.
If someday I decide to do something permanent on my body, I'll do this.
Thursday, Nov 16 of 2017
img/backgroundPost7.jpg
I ever wondered why people make permanent tatoos on themselves. I asked several times and every person seems to have their own reasons. Some of them want to remember some event or person, some of them just want to have a cool image on their skin.

For me it seems totally strange because I found myself changing my mind to lot over the course of the years. For me, changing my mind is part of the natural process of growing. If you do not change your mind over the years, can you say that you learn anything about yourself and the people around you?

But a few years ago, I found something inside that I would like to remain permanent. Some rules that I'd like to stay always in my mind to guide my decisions.

There are some rules on life, that help you stay focused, not spending money on unnecesary things and behave with other people. But this rules are a lot and do not apply to all stages of life (there are like 20).

So, as you can guess, this tatoo is not a cool trival tatoo or a skull and crossbones thing. It's a list.

This list have only 3 items. If the list where longer, it will loose it's simplicity. As a general rule, 3 is a nice number.

So, my tatoo would say:

1. Work Hard.
2. Take care of yourself.
3. Be nice with people.

This rules helped me a lot in the past. Sometimes I was upset or frustrated with my job and thought that work at "half gear" was correct, because "they do not pay me enough and the work is anoying", but this is unprofessional. You have to work properly until you are ready to move to the next job (sometimes is not possible right away).

Sometimes, I worked so hard that my shoulder hurts, or my head hurts, or my knees hurts, or my heart pumps too much when I try to climb a stair. Sometimes, I was readig a book and the ideas did not stick on my mind, because I was exausted. I forgot to take care of myself.

Sometimes I was frustrated by the lack of money, or because I was under stress for too much time, and I forgot to listen to people, to my family, I lost interest on their everyday things. Their ideas seemed annoying to me. So I tried to finish the conversation earlier making some comment about what their are saying losing some important stuff about my loved ones. I forgot to be nice to people. Every time you are not nice to people, you become a little more lonely. At the end of your life, this little loses will add up.

So, this is my tatoo, but tatoos are permanent, and life is organic. So, who knows?

